Hello and welcome back to the course on databases.
So we've already downloaded the dataset and now we want to upload it into our database.
All right so here we got pajamas for opened up.
That's first of all create a new database right click select Create new database.
And here we're just going to call it our pets because the data set is about pets.
The challenge of about pets and I think it's just fair to call pets.
And now what we want to do is we want to upload our data set so we going need the code to upload it.
Therefore let's bring up a browser and go to superdad assigns dot com slash.
As you well know if you scroll down here to Whoops to Section 7 you'll see Section 7 as you will upload
code.
So just go ahead and click that button.
Click the link and you'll get a word doc file download to a computer which looks like this.
And in here we've got quite a few lines of code.
So we want to copy all of them into Put PGE admin so contrl on Windows or comment on Mac to select everything
and copy it and then let's create a new query.
So right click and query tool.
I think we need a full screen here.
And there we go.
So there's a query.
It's all copied over.
And now we just need to create these tables.
So let's go ahead and just create all these tables.
First things first.
Right.
So this is done.
And next we want to specify the correct correct path.
So I'm on Windows I'm going to use the Windows version so I'm going to delete the Mac versions if your
Mac is a Mac version.
They're a bit different.
And don't forget to correct your path so make sure the user name is correct and just the full path of
your folders correct.
Mine is actually a bit different to what it says here.
Mine is this pass.
We go OK so with I just wanted to mention something with the last two lines this one for details and
procedure history.
Just make sure just for all of them actually make sure that the capitalization is exactly like an actual
file.
Because I think originally I uploaded it and there was a mistake it wasn't capitals so it might give
you an error if that's the case.
So just make sure it's the Capitals piece capital and these capitals so it's a it's case sensitive basically
so it has to match exactly the file name.
OK.
So we've created tables.
Now let's go ahead and copy the data.
There we go.
That's 114 road 100 rows roses 89 rows there is 41 rows and there's 2284 rows.
Beautiful everything is copied.
And just to check.
You can do the select statements so are from pets.
Always a good idea and run that.
So here in this table you'll see that we've got a unique ID for every pet name and the type with it's
a dog cat or a parrot.
We've got the gender the age and we've got the owner I.D. It's wonderful.
Now let's check the owners
owner's
so similar table here we've got the owner ID which we also saw in the parody table.
So there was a foreign key here as a primary key but the name the surname street address the city the
state the state fall.
So Michigan Michigan and the zip code Okay wonderful.
So was another one procedure details.
All right.
So here we've got just information on any given procedure.
So this is a procedure type procedure.
Sub code in that type and then the scription.
So whether it was office school emergency bath Phyllida police spray and so on and then the price OK
so that looks like it's upload.
Well and finally we want to check procedure history.
So if you run that you'll see that here you've got again pet I.D. But now this is a global tail table
and we'll talk more about this inside the section.
Why did this one go global.
This was a nationwide table so for all pets nationally that are serviced by this chain of veterinarian
clinics rather than the other tables owners and pets are local to Michigan.
So there we go.
Here we've got procedure details of procedure date procedure type procedure sub code.
All right so there we go.
All four tables are uploaded and you're all set to proceed with the practical tutorials in this section
called wait to see the next tutorial.
And until then happy analyzing.